---
date: 2023-11-16T10:00:00-04:00
description: ""
featured_image: "images/featured_images/p36.jpg"
tags: ["maintenance", "forester", "sg"]
title: "What's up with Forester?"
---

After all those Impreza Rust Diaries, it's finally Forester's turn for some
love. This week, it’s time for an oil change, and since the mileage is steadily
increasing, the spark plugs were also due for replacement, as per the book.

{{<gallery
    globalMatch="images/p36/garage.jpg"
    sortOrder="asc"
    rowHeight="150"
    margins="5"
    thumbnailResizeOptions="800x800 q90 Lanczos"
    showExif=true
    previewType="blur"
    embedPreview=true
    loadJQuery=true
>}}

For the record, at 305969km:
* Engine oil change (Castrol Edge LL 5W30),
* Fuel filter replacement,
* Air filter replacement,
* Cabin air filter replacement,
* Spark plug replacement (NGK Iridium).


I finally got around to replacing the headlight washer nozzle T-joint. It’s a
well-known issue: a spring loaded pressure valve. The washer fluid reservoir
has two pumps, one for the windshield and one for the headlights. The headlight
pump builds up pressure, the valve opens, and the fluid sprays the headlights.
The problem arises when the spring inside the T-joint valve rusts and doesn't
return the valve to close position when the pump stops pumping the fluid, or
when the rubber cap that seals the branches wears out. Fluid slowly leaks
through the headlight washer nozzles. This can easily be diagnosed by blowing
into the T-joint; when you take it out of the lines, the top branch should be
closed, while the side ones should be open. Here’s what it looks like:

{{<gallery
    globalMatch="images/p36/nozzle_and_t_piece/*"
    sortOrder="asc"
    rowHeight="150"
    margins="5"
    thumbnailResizeOptions="800x800 q90 Lanczos"
    showExif=true
    previewType="blur"
    embedPreview=true
    loadJQuery=true
>}}

The T-joint is located under the left headlight. Small hands might be able to
access it without removing the lamp, but I unscrewed it and gently pulled it
out:

{{<gallery
    globalMatch="images/p36/t_piece_pipes.jpg"
    sortOrder="asc"
    rowHeight="150"
    margins="5"
    thumbnailResizeOptions="800x800 q90 Lanczos"
    showExif=true
    previewType="blur"
    embedPreview=true
    loadJQuery=true
>}}

While I was at it, I also replaced the missing lower grill clips (91059FC041).
