---
date: 2024-02-02T10:00:00-04:00
description: ""
featured_image: "images/featured_images/p38.jpg"
tags: ["impreza", "gd", "sti"]
title: "An artisan from The Witcher"
---

Back in April of last year, I bought a [control unit along with a set of Defi
gauges]({{< relref "posts/p15" >}}): oil pressure and temperature, boost, and
water temperature (the latter is looking for a new owner), all with beautiful,
deep amber backlighting. They match Hawk's ambience perfectly. I then set out
to find an ATI gauge pod, which turned out to be quite a challenge. There is a
bunch of similar products available, but none with attachment clips at the
bottom, and I wanted it to fit perfectly, with no squeaks or gaps. The Belgians
came to the rescue, and so, in mid-September, the postman brought a package
from AVB Sports.

{{<gallery
    globalMatch="images/p38/before.jpg"
    sortOrder="asc"
    rowHeight="150"
    margins="5"
    thumbnailResizeOptions="800x800 q90 Lanczos"
    showExif=true
    previewType="blur"
    embedPreview=true
    loadJQuery=true
>}}

A quick test fit — looks good. There were a few issues, though: after
installation, I found that the pressure sensor was faulty and had to be
replaced. But in the end, everything works perfectly and is installed as it
should be, in the oil channels of engine's block.

The last thing I wanted to do was to upholster the pod. And this is where The
Witcher comes in, or rather, Valgard Design (those who know, know). At work, I
often hear that you can get something quickly, cheaply, and well, but the
problem is, you can only choose two options. With Valgard Design, that's not
the case — you don't have to choose. Here's how it works: not fast, probably
not cheap, but it's done really well, actually, exceptionally well. I first
chatted with them in mid-October, I handed the pod in at the beginning of
December, and I picked it up only yesterday. The quality though is absolutely
out of this world! All the seams are exactly where they should be, the panels
are perfectly integrated, creating a coherent unit with the pod, and the
Alcantara looks great, (the geometry of the pot is quite complex, making it
even more impressive). I highly recommend them. Here's how it looks before
installing on the dash:

{{<gallery
    globalMatch="images/p38/wrapped/*"
    sortOrder="asc"
    rowHeight="150"
    margins="5"
    thumbnailResizeOptions="800x800 q90 Lanczos"
    showExif=true
    previewType="blur"
    embedPreview=true
    loadJQuery=true
>}}

And here's the ambience I mentioned:

{{<gallery
    globalMatch="images/p38/installed/*"
    sortOrder="asc"
    rowHeight="150"
    margins="5"
    thumbnailResizeOptions="800x800 q90 Lanczos"
    showExif=true
    previewType="blur"
    embedPreview=true
    loadJQuery=true
>}}

If anyone needs a Defi water temperature gauge and sensor, I've got one
available:

{{<gallery
    globalMatch="images/p38/spare.jpg"
    sortOrder="asc"
    rowHeight="150"
    margins="5"
    thumbnailResizeOptions="800x800 q90 Lanczos"
    showExif=true
    previewType="blur"
    embedPreview=true
    loadJQuery=true
>}}

