---
date: 2023-07-07T08:00:00-04:00
description: ""
featured_image: "images/featured_images/p8.jpg"
tags: ["impreza", "gd", "sti", "car audio"]
title: "Blue tooth and green lights, for the second time"
---


History has a way of repeating itself, and this was the case here. For the
second time, I set off on a [crusade in emerald green]({{< relref "posts/p3"
>}}). This time, the task was more challenging. In addition to replacing the
light bulbs, I also wanted to upgrade the backlighting of the driver’s door
control panel. It bothered me that only the `LOCK` and `AUTO` buttons were
illuminated. It turned out that the board had connectors for the other LEDs as
well, so I soldered the missing resistor and three LEDs. Since they differed in
color from the original ones, I decided to replace those two as well:

{{<gallery
    globalMatch="images/p8/board.jpg"
    sortOrder="asc"
    rowHeight="150"
    margins="5"
    thumbnailResizeOptions="800x800 q90 Lanczos"
    showExif=true
    previewType="blur"
    embedPreview=true
    loadJQuery=true
>}}

Final effect:

{{<gallery
    globalMatch="images/p8/all_on.jpg"
    sortOrder="asc"
    rowHeight="150"
    margins="5"
    thumbnailResizeOptions="800x800 q90 Lanczos"
    showExif=true
    previewType="blur"
    embedPreview=true
    loadJQuery=true
>}}

The cool thing about that board is that when passengers' controls are disabled
it also cuts off their backlighting:

{{<gallery
    globalMatch="images/p8/locked.jpg"
    sortOrder="asc"
    rowHeight="150"
    margins="5"
    thumbnailResizeOptions="800x800 q90 Lanczos"
    showExif=true
    previewType="blur"
    embedPreview=true
    loadJQuery=true
>}}

As a fun fact, the board can be used plug-and-play with Forester SG.

Next in line, and just like [with the Forester]({{< relref "posts/p2" >}}), was
the Bluetooth module; this was definitely a more difficult task. The Impreza
has a standard Kenwood GX-401EF2 radio, but unfortunately, the Bluetooth module
from the Chinese manufacturer (similar to the one in the Forester, but with the
correct connector) didn't work. There are legends about a resistor on a pin,
but nothing came of it. The next option was the dedicated Kenwood KCA-BT100,
which fortunately was for sale in Poznań, so I could test it. Unfortunately, it
didn't work with the radio either. While it connected fine and the radio
recognized it as a CD changer emulator, it wasn't possible to control the
module from the radio or connect a phone to it. I suspect this particular unit
already had a full list of known devices and rejected any new connections.

I found myself in a bit of desperation. I want to keep the Impreza as close to
stock as possible, so a modern radio was out of the question. On the other
hand, the amount of ads on the airwaves is unbearable, and the only non virtual
music I buy these days won't even fit in the player — round they are, but way
too big, and need 33 1⁄3 rpm.

Then, the user manual came to the rescue. While I was looking for how to
activate the maximum/cut-off rev buzzer (what a cool feature that is, I should
write a post about it), I noticed that there was an option for a 6-CD changer
radio, the same as in the post-facelift Forester SGs, the GX-806EF2, which
works with the [Wefa CD changer emulator](https://wefa.pl). I got WF603, which
pretty great.

{{<gallery
    globalMatch="images/p8/radio.jpg"
    sortOrder="asc"
    rowHeight="150"
    margins="5"
    thumbnailResizeOptions="800x800 q90 Lanczos"
    showExif=true
    previewType="blur"
    embedPreview=true
    loadJQuery=true
>}}

And at the very end, Gerda the dog is once again predicting the future:

{{<gallery
    globalMatch="images/p8/gerda.jpg"
    sortOrder="asc"
    rowHeight="150"
    margins="5"
    thumbnailResizeOptions="800x800 q90 Lanczos"
    showExif=true
    previewType="blur"
    embedPreview=true
    loadJQuery=true
>}}
