---
date: 2025-12-15T10:00:00-04:00
description: ""
featured_image: "images/featured_images/p86.jpg"
tags: ["impreza", "gc8", "type-r"]
title: "A new chapter"
---

It happened. On December 10th, somewhere on the eastern outskirts of the Royal
Capital City of Kraków, I was greeted by the following sight:

{{<gallery
    globalMatch="images/p86/hello.jpg"
    sortOrder="asc"
    rowHeight="150"
    margins="5"
    thumbnailResizeOptions="800x800 q90 Lanczos"
    showExif=true
    previewType="blur"
    embedPreview=true
    loadJQuery=true
>}}

Type R ready for pickup. For various reasons the whole thing dragged on a bit;
what was supposed to be 3 weeks turned into 5, but honestly, it doesn't bother
me one bit. I really like how Mariusz worked on the car. We were constantly in
touch, he answered all my questions, and every now and then I'd drop by to see
the progress. And every single time it was the same: I'd say I was just stopping
by for 10 minutes to see how things were going, and an hour later: "Alright, I'm
heading out now, because I could honestly talk cars with you all day long".
Mariusz is clearly a true enthusiast - petrol runs through his veins - and, most
importantly, he approaches everything with a craftsman's precision and
dedication.

The progress of the work (in a nutshell):

First cuts and welds. Interestingly, there's no need to remove the engine, but
to avoid any cracks the windshield was cut out:

{{<gallery
    globalMatch="images/p86/first_cut/*"
    sortOrder="asc"
    rowHeight="150"
    margins="5"
    thumbnailResizeOptions="800x800 q90 Lanczos"
    showExif=true
    previewType="blur"
    embedPreview=true
    loadJQuery=true
>}}

Openings for the steering column and brake booster are swapped with those of the
heater unit. The best approach is to cut out surrounding rectangle from the
donor's firewall and weld it in place:

{{<gallery
    globalMatch="images/p86/first_cut_3.jpg"
    sortOrder="asc"
    rowHeight="150"
    margins="5"
    thumbnailResizeOptions="800x800 q90 Lanczos"
    showExif=true
    previewType="blur"
    embedPreview=true
    loadJQuery=true
>}}

A trained eye will also notice the metal brackets for the steering column, ECU,
and footrest on the LHD side. I think I'll only ever see this area one more
time, but more on that in another episode, plans have already been made.

Next, the sound deadening mat from the donor went in, everything nicely aligned:

{{<gallery
    globalMatch="images/p86/sound_deadening/*"
    sortOrder="asc"
    rowHeight="150"
    margins="5"
    thumbnailResizeOptions="800x800 q90 Lanczos"
    showExif=true
    previewType="blur"
    embedPreview=true
    loadJQuery=true
>}}

The wiring harness was taken out of the loom, there was some fun involved there.
The car had some crazy hi-fi system before, which left behind a ton of extra
wiring, plus an alarm and central locking (both non-functional). Everything was
neatly removed.

{{<gallery
    globalMatch="images/p86/tangled.jpg"
    sortOrder="asc"
    rowHeight="150"
    margins="5"
    thumbnailResizeOptions="800x800 q90 Lanczos"
    showExif=true
    previewType="blur"
    embedPreview=true
    loadJQuery=true
>}}

Air conditioning turned out to be problematic. Despite trying really hard, we
ended up going with manual A/C; I'll leave "climatronic" for later. Maybe one
day [this
thread](https://www.rs25.com/threads/gc8-lhd-auto-hvac-conversion-a-journey-and-a-half.256235)
will provide all the answers we need to get it done. So, the manual A/C wiring
had to be integrated into the main loom, there's also a new A/C condenser. Along
the way, relays, a switch, and wiring for the rear fog light were added, just
like in the European versions.

{{<gallery
    globalMatch="images/p86/relay.jpg"
    sortOrder="asc"
    rowHeight="150"
    margins="5"
    thumbnailResizeOptions="800x800 q90 Lanczos"
    showExif=true
    previewType="blur"
    embedPreview=true
    loadJQuery=true
>}}

{{<gallery
    globalMatch="images/p86/in/*"
    sortOrder="asc"
    rowHeight="150"
    margins="5"
    thumbnailResizeOptions="800x800 q90 Lanczos"
    showExif=true
    previewType="blur"
    embedPreview=true
    loadJQuery=true
>}}

Now we're really picking up the pace: wiper motor, brake booster, clutch master
cylinder, the entire HVAC system all in place:

{{<gallery
    globalMatch="images/p86/out/*"
    sortOrder="asc"
    rowHeight="150"
    margins="5"
    thumbnailResizeOptions="800x800 q90 Lanczos"
    showExif=true
    previewType="blur"
    embedPreview=true
    loadJQuery=true
>}}

Once the intercooler is in, it basically means everything in the engine bay is
done.

{{<gallery
    globalMatch="images/p86/intercooler/inter_1.jpg"
    sortOrder="asc"
    rowHeight="150"
    margins="5"
    thumbnailResizeOptions="800x800 q90 Lanczos"
    showExif=true
    previewType="blur"
    embedPreview=true
    loadJQuery=true
>}}

The windshield also went back into its place.

{{<gallery
    globalMatch="images/p86/intercooler/inter_2.jpg"
    sortOrder="asc"
    rowHeight="150"
    margins="5"
    thumbnailResizeOptions="800x800 q90 Lanczos"
    showExif=true
    previewType="blur"
    embedPreview=true
    loadJQuery=true
>}}

We all know Subaru is basically Lego, but the fact that a wagon carpet fits the
Type R perfectly surprised me quite a lot. It's a bit ratty, but for now it'll
have to stay that way.

{{<gallery
    globalMatch="images/p86/carpet.jpg"
    sortOrder="asc"
    rowHeight="150"
    margins="5"
    thumbnailResizeOptions="800x800 q90 Lanczos"
    showExif=true
    previewType="blur"
    embedPreview=true
    loadJQuery=true
>}}

Final touches:

{{<gallery
    globalMatch="images/p86/in_2/*"
    sortOrder="asc"
    rowHeight="150"
    margins="5"
    thumbnailResizeOptions="800x800 q90 Lanczos"
    showExif=true
    previewType="blur"
    embedPreview=true
    loadJQuery=true
>}}

To all those concerned: I'd like to inform you that the gaping black abyss where
the passenger glovebox should be will soon be closed. The glovebox is sailing in
from Japan.

The irony of this whole endeavour is that it's December, and despite how long I
waited for this car, this whole adventure started in had September 2024, and I
won the auction on June 26, now the car hops straight into the garage and I have
to wait again, this time until spring (yes, I know, first-world problems). I've
driven less than 300 km so far (Kraków–Limanowa–Kraków and a trip toward
Silesia), always choosing back roads, and one thing is certain: this car and I
are going to get along very, very well.

In September I drove a BMW 3 Series (G20) and I remember that when I got back
home and took the STI (Hawk) for a spin, I thought to myself: "Thank God there
are still such mechanical inventions". Sure, it's a different league and
comparing apples to oranges, but one thing is certain: I know which car I'd
rather get into in the morning. And interestingly, I had a very similar feeling
comparing the Type R to the Hawk: "Thank God there are still such crazy
inventions!"

I did an MOT, well, first I got a failure (as part of the exemption process
needed for non 17 characters VIN), but then the car was properly checked. The
right control arm ball joint needs to be replaced - full set already ordered,
maybe I'll do it between Christmas and New Year. And the brakes. I didn't feel
super confident in the car, obviously I still need to really learn it: no ABS,
very short gearbox, quick steering rack, different power steering, old tires.
But during the inspection, the rear brakes didn't stop the rollers. The plan is
to try three things: bleed the system, inspect the caliper pistons, or see
what's going on with the brake bias valve; I'll need to read up on how to adjust
it.

Another observation: the clutch is a bit funny - it seems to bite right at the
top, but as if only halfway, and only fully engages right at the very bottom.
I'll need to keep an eye on that.

Throttle response is also something I need to learn; in the Hawk, a rev-matched
downshift requires just a blip on the gas, literally a tap and the revs are
there. Here it definitely takes longer. I don't know if that's the map, the
cable vs electronic throttle, or something else. For what it's worth the gas
cable was a bit problematic, the original didn't really fit, neither did the
donor car's one, so we ended up fabricating a custom mounting bracket for it on
the manifold.

But all that will come later. For now, the car is washed (yes, with a jack at
the car wash 🙂) and tucked under a blanket.

{{<gallery
    globalMatch="images/p86/wash/*"
    sortOrder="asc"
    rowHeight="150"
    margins="5"
    thumbnailResizeOptions="800x800 q90 Lanczos"
    showExif=true
    previewType="blur"
    embedPreview=true
    loadJQuery=true
>}}
