---
date: 2026-03-10T08:00:00-06:00
featured_image: "images/featured_images/p93.jpg"
tags: ["impreza", "gc8", "type-r" ]
title: "KK 5550V"
---

For years I've had a keen eye for licence plates. Back in the UK I'd find
myself, almost subconsciously, checking them all the time. You get so many good
ones. Pure vanity aside, plates like "B16 BOB", "BO55 MRK", there are matching
his-and-hers sets, initials, business references. Some can get super creative as
well. I remember when we had windows fitted and two vans showed up with
something along the lines of "S4 SSH" on one and "CA5E WIN" on the other.

For years I've had a keen eye for licence plates. Back in the UK I'd find
myself, almost subconsciously, checking them all the time. Pure vanity aside,
plates like "B16 BOB" or "BO55 MRK", you get so many good ones. There are
matching his-and-hers sets, initials, business references. Some can get super
creative as well. I remember when we had windows fitted and two vans showed up
with something along the lines of "S4 SSH" on one and "CA5E WIN" on the other.

It all started when I was walking past a long-gone establishment on Home Street
in Edinburgh and realised what, brace yourself, "PU51 BAR" on one of those
ridiculously stretched limos parked there was referring to.

The UK system must be the best in the entire world. Not only do you get
geographical distinction and the date baked into the sequence (which makes it
future-proof), but it also allows for that creativity and the licence-plate game
that I like so much.

Here in Poland, the sequences are not quite as generous. Sure, you can have a
custom plate, three to five characters of your choice, but that kind of kills
the game for me. Instead, I went to our DVLA equivalent and kindly asked them to
find a plate with "555" in it. Twenty-five minutes and two boxes of chocolates
later, I got "KK 5550V", which goes nicely with "PY 20555" on the Hawk.

This might seem like a small thing, but it's actually huge: it concludes the
conversion process and means that the Type-R is officially a road-legal vehicle.

{{<gallery
    globalMatch="images/p93/kk5550v.jpg"
    sortOrder="asc"
    rowHeight="150"
    margins="5"
    thumbnailResizeOptions="800x800 q90 Lanczos"
    showExif=true
    previewType="blur"
    embedPreview=true
    loadJQuery=true
>}}
