---
date: 2026-04-15T08:00:00-06:00
featured_image: "images/featured_images/p95.jpg"
tags: ["forester", "sg" ]
title: "A Crime Drama in Three Acts"
---

* **Act I - Introduction**  
  A detective and his partner: an aging veteran and his alter ego, twenty years
  younger. They make a perfect duo. One night, he watches her onstage in a local
  pub, playing with a band, radiant with life and joy. It's the moment we
  understand she won't survive the next scene. 

* **Act II - Confrontation**  
  A murder with no witnesses, no clear motive, only a symbol left at the crime
  scene, connected to a series of unsolved cases. The detective falls into an
  obsessive state, trying to solve the mystery of his partner's death.

* **Act III - Resolution (?)**  
  It’s a PG-13 movie, so there has to be a happy ending. The detective unmasks
  the killer, someone we know well, someone we've already gotten used to seeing.
  A respected figure. When the case seems closed, the detective reviews the
  investigation files one last time. A distant gaze, a smile filled more with
  pain and exhaustion than happiness. At that moment, the camera shows a note
  landing on the desk: "You missed one", with the same symbol at the bottom of
  the page that we know from the murder. Sequel guaranteed.

Wait, wait, wait! Why these three acts here and not on some amateur writer's
forum? Well, because the Forester, most likely fascinated by Scandinavian crime
literature, decided to play out just such a drama.

* **Act I - Introduction**  
  Forester is my daily and I love it. Sometimes its old-age issues annoy me, but
  let he who doesn't rub himself with Voltarol in the evening cast the first
  stone. Last week I lay under it, checked what needed checking, changed the
  oil, filters, and got the summer wheels on. *That's the pub scene.*

{{<gallery
    globalMatch="images/p95/pub.jpg"
    sortOrder="asc"
    rowHeight="150"
    margins="5"
    thumbnailResizeOptions="800x800 q90 Lanczos"
    showExif=true
    previewType="blur"
    embedPreview=true
    loadJQuery=true
>}}

* **Act II - Confrontation**  
  I'm cruising along the A4 to Kraków (on the non-toll section, as a matter of
  principle I refuse to pay for that abomination of a motorway). Suddenly, the
  temperature gauge starts exploring regions it had never visited before. *The
  partner's corpse is just around the corner.* Just as it hit red, there
  happened to be a lay-bay. I pull over, open the hood, look, listen. The
  radiator neck, the one from the hose leading to the expansion tank, crumbles
  before my eyes. *Well, there's the corpse.* I call a tow truck. Obsessively
  browsing threads about head gaskets on the forums. Calculations: fix it, sell
  it, engine swap it, or scrap it - drama. The tow truck arrives.  

{{<gallery
    globalMatch="images/p95/tow_truck.jpg"
    sortOrder="asc"
    rowHeight="150"
    margins="5"
    thumbnailResizeOptions="800x800 q90 Lanczos"
    showExif=true
    previewType="blur"
    embedPreview=true
    loadJQuery=true
>}}

* **Act III - Resolution (?)**  
  PG-13 rules apply, or maybe it's my innate luck, which Tomek firmly believes
  in (I'm ever so slightly more sceptical about that), nevertheless happy ending
  there is. Fortunately, it's not a blown head gasket, just a leaking radiator.
  Low coolant caused it to overheat. Replacing the radiator, cap, and hoses
  solves the case. But the amount of stress I went through is another story. It
  seems that everything is OK, but there's still a slight unease. I'll have to
  be a bit more cautious with the Forester, after all, it's a 24-year-old car
  with nearly 350,000 km on the clock.  

{{<gallery
    globalMatch="images/p95/new/*"
    sortOrder="asc"
    rowHeight="150"
    margins="5"
    thumbnailResizeOptions="800x800 q90 Lanczos"
    showExif=true
    previewType="blur"
    embedPreview=true
    loadJQuery=true
>}}
